Application and scope <br>
Ball balancing platform will be used to implement, monitor, and analyze the aforementioned control design approach for the sake of study. The goal is to keep a ball from rolling off a flat surface by compensating for factors like wind and other external forces.
In addition to traditional building materials, three distinct pieces of equipment will be used to bring the edifice to life, generate data, and obtain the appropriate motion output. In the thesis, the platform is a resistive touch panel that relays information about the ball's location to a microcontroller. A pair of servo motors are controlled by a microprocessor, which in turn determines the ball's speed and acceleration based on the input data. In response to a control signal from a microcontroller, servo motors cause an angular displacement by altering their position. The study will make use of the information gathered from both the physical model and the simulation of the system. In order to test, we will manually perturb the ball's position and then observe the effect on the system's steady-state stability. This thesis attempts to address the following issues:
Can a ball balancing platform be built with sufficient performance using only linear control techniques?
What, if anything, accounts for the discrepancies between theoretical models and experimental results?
To what extent do practical results differ from theoretical predictions when attempting to stabilize a system that is inherently unstable or only partially stable?
